# v0.9 - 2025-09-26

## Breaking Changes

### Signature of TestMethod Functional StaticPattern Changed

A boolean argument has been added to parametrize the datalog capability.

**Impact:** Customer may need to check their InstanceSheet to add a boolean to the arguments list.

### Remove Static TryParse Method from Pins Object

The feature `Pins.TryParse` has been removed because the use-case has been fixed in another way.

**Impact:** Customer may need to remove the method from their TestProgram.

### Move Programmatic Version Readout to Proper Location and Add XML Comments

The feature is now accessible via `Csra.V1.Api.Info.Version` following the scheme of the other C#RA features

### Remove `SplitMultiCondition()` from TheLib.Validate

`SplitMultiCondition()` from Validation TestBlock has been replaced by Validation method 'MultiCondition()'

```c#
// previously
TheLib.Validate.SplitMultiCondition();
// now
TheLib.Validate.MultiCondition();
```

**Impact:** Refactoring needed, replace old with new method.

## Bug Fixes 

### Bug Fix in Search Parametric

In the `Search Parametric` TestMethods, the voltage range for the forcing pin was not defined. The current update resolves this issue by using the `ForceV` method, which allows setting the voltage range.

### Fix Bug Related to Measurement Pin Configuration

The bug related to measurement pin configuration has been resolved. The `SetForceAndMeter` method was replaced with `ForceHiZ` and `SetMeter`, eliminating the possibility of forcing a value on the pin and ensuring correct measurement setup.

The test description has been adjusted to provide clarity regarding its use for voltage forcing and measurement.

### Fix Bug Related to Gate Switching in Voltage Mode for the PPMU

The issue where the gate was only switching in current mode has been fixed, voltage mode is now correctly handled.

### Fix Bug Related to LinearStopFromToCount and LinearFullProcess

Comparing both algorithms with the same data previously resulted in different return values. This has been fixed, and the results are now identical for the same data.

##  Improvements

### Add Parameter Validation for TestMethods

Validation Blocks have been added to the TestMethods, to verify the input arguments from IG-XL.

**Impact:** Expands argument validation coverage within C#RA.

### LICENSE.txt has been Added to the Release Package

A license file is now part of the release package.

### Add GreaterThan() & LessThan() Validation TestBlock

TestBlocks has been added to the Validation TestBlock family.

```c#
TheLib.Validate.GreaterThan(forceValue, 0, nameof(forceValue));
TheLib.Validate.LessThan(forceValue, 6.5, nameof(forceValue));
```

**Impact:** Provides option to test if a value is greater/less than boundary.

### Clean up Code Structures Corresponding to VBA's `With` Statements

Per recommended practice, temporary variables with a brief name should be used

```c#
{
    var dcvs = TheHdw.DCVS.Pins(powerPin);
    dcvs.Gate = false;
    dcvs.Disconnect(tlDCVSConnectWhat.Default);
}
```

**Impact:** Functionally identical, readability improved.

### Supporting IG-XL 11.00 Release

The C#RA-Team is excited to announce that `Csra` now officially supports the IG-XL 11.00 Release!
